---
layout: post
title: AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)
date: 2022-01-23 00:00:00
description: AWS resources management with the IAM
comments: true
tags: aws, iam
categories: software
---

## Table of contents
  1. [Notice](#notice)
  2. [What is IAM?](#aim)
  3. [How to open IAM dashboard](#iam_dashboard)
  4. [How to add an IAM user](#iam_add)
  5. [Reference](#ref)

<hr>

## 1. Notice <a name="notice"></a>
- A guide for adding an IAM user
- The name of region is Asia Pacific (Seoul) and the corresponding code is ap-northeast-2 [1].
- I recommend that you should ignore the commented instructions with an octothorpe, #.
- I recommend that you should fill in the appropriate letters between the parentheses, <>.

<hr>

## 2. What is IAM? <a name="iam"></a>
The AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) is a web service that helps you securely control access to AWS resources.
You use IAM to control who is authenticated (signed in) and authorized (has permissions) to use resources [2].
You can check the IAM in details on the [What is IAM?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction.html) [2].

<hr>

## 3. How to open IAM dashboard <a name="iam_dashboard"></a>

You can open [IAM dashboard](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iamv2/home#/home) to set IAM configurations.
You can click a button, Users, to manage configurations of IAM users. The Fig. 1 shows the
IAM dashboard and Users dashboard. You should click a blue button in the upper right corner, Add users, to add a new IAM user.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/blog/AWS/1_IAM/fig_1_a.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/blog/AWS/1_IAM/fig_1_b.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig. 1. The IAM and user dashboard.
</div>

<hr>

## 4. How to add an IAM user <a name="iam_add"></a>

You can easily add an IAM user by following the procedures as shown in Fig. 2. I recommend that you should follow the
configurations except for the permission policy. The Fig. 2 shows the procedures for creating a new IAM user with full
permission policies. Please note that you should remember access key ID, secret access key and password that are shown
in the last procedure. Both access key ID and secret access key are used to install the
[AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html).


<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/blog/AWS/1_IAM/fig_2_a.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/blog/AWS/1_IAM/fig_2_b.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/blog/AWS/1_IAM/fig_2_c.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/blog/AWS/1_IAM/fig_2_d.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/blog/AWS/1_IAM/fig_2_e.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig. 2. Procedures for adding an IAM user.
</div>

<hr>

## 5. Reference <a name="ref"></a>
1. <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-regions-availability-zones.html" title="Regions and Zones"> Regions and Zones</a>
2. <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction.html" title="What is IAM?"> What is IAM?</a>

<hr>
